# 10-301/601: Introduction to Machine Learning

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| HW       | 4     |
| Exams    | 5|

Intro to ML is one of the most popular CS electives at CMU, as ML has been a very hot topic in the last few years.
The class will cover a good variety of ML concepts, but does not go too much into detail since it is 
just an introductory class.

## Prerequisites

- One probability course, be it 36-225, 36-217, or some equivalent
- Concepts (21-127, 15-151 or equivalent)
- 15-122

Skipping these prerequisits, especially the math ones, is not recommended. This course is essentially half math.

## Topics covered

- **Decision Trees**
- **k-Nearest Neighbors**
- **Perceptron**
- **Linear Regression**
- **Logistic Regression**
- **Neural Networks**
- **PAC Learning**
- **MLE/MAP**
- **Naive Bayes**
- **Markov Models**
- **Bayesian Networks**
- **Reinforcement Learning**

## Class structure

The class is very well organized, and follows the approximate structure:

1. Lecture about [ML method]
   - Hand calculations to derive an important theorem about ML method
   - Algorithm
   - Applications

2. Written and coding homework about topic
   - Perform hand calculations on your own
   - Implement algorithm in code

## Homeworks

Homework is usually split into programming and written sections. There are also times when homework is exclusively written. No extensive knowledge of latex is needed as a template is usually provided, although it is helpful to know. For many, the programming part may be easier than the written part. The written portion of the assignment is usually key to understanding aspects of the programming section, so skimming the written portion at bare minimum is extremely important. 

The programming sections of homeworks are straightforward implementations of algorithms that are covered in class. Lecture slides and the lectures themselves go into algorithms in a great depth, so the homeworks should not be too bad. In addition, since the algorithms are often well-known in the ML field, you can find lots of support for them online as well. The handouts provided for the homework is detailed, so make sure to read that as well. Definitely make sure to write your own tests for your program if it is possible, since that can help you uncover bugs you can't find on Gradescope.

As a trick, sometimes your program might take a while to run on your computer. If you run your program on the Andrew machines at CMU instead, you might find a considerable boost in your program speed. 

Please note that it is best to use Python for the programming assignments because almost all the TAs and instrutors are best equipped to debug Python code. In prior semesters, Java, C++, and Python were allowed, however as of Spring 2022 only Python is allowed for homework submission.

## How to study for exams

One of the trickiest parts of the class is that there is a wide
breadth of material so it is hard to learn everything in depth.
For exams, it is important to know all your **equations and algorithms**.
Fortunately, you have a cheatsheet so you can put those on there!

The best thing you can do is to take the practice exams from the course website. 
There is a chance that the exact same question shows up in the actual exam.

In addition, you can also do other school's exams for extra practice on the topic.



## External materials for the class

The good news about ML is that it is a very widely taught course, so there are lots of good materials about it outside of CMU. The most notable source for ML education is Andrew Ng's CS229 course at Stanford. His course notes are great and his class has lots of great content.