# 15-410: Operating Systems

| Category | Difficulty |
|:--       | :-:        |
| HW       | 3          |
| Projects | 8          |
| `p3`     | 10         |
| Exams    | 8          |

OS is one of the most infamous courses at CMU, known for its difficulty, and
grueling assignments and exams. As difficult as it may be to get a good
grade, most students can agree they will learn invaluable skills and habits
from this course, regardless of their final grade.

In addition, much of the difficult of OS comes from the structure of the
course, which can be ambiguous in asking for what they want, and not
providing a whole lot of direction.

This guide will attempt to clear up some of these ambiguities and give
pointers to future students who want to run the relentless, but rewarding
gauntlet of OS.

## Lectures

The course staff recommends students attend lecture. While you could probably
survive OS without attending lecture, there are tips and warnings given by
the course staff during lectures that can help you with your projects.
Lectures do not feel concretely rewarding as a lecture on algorithms might
be, where you walk out with a tangible new skill, but if you go to them with
a willing attitude, you can properly apply a lot of the tips to your code.

The lectures do a good job of giving high-level ideas of what the course
staff is looking for, and has tons of content to absorb.

However, the introduction to these topics can be quite cursory, and unless
you already have a background in the subject, you may not be able to fully
understand what the course staff is trying to tell you. For example, the
course staff might warn you about race conditions, but you don't really feel
the pain of race conditions until you experience them for yourself during a
bug in one of your projects.

## Projects

Projects are the core of OS. They give the student a chance to not only
implement systems-level projects, but also test a student's ability to apply
all the good practices that the course staff wants to teach the student,
which include

- Synchronization safety
- Readability
- Style
- Modularity
- Testing

You should think of your projects as "products," and anything from something
that could be sold to the public is not good enough.

## `p3`

Essentially the face of the course, `p3` is difficult for many reasons

- You have to write a lot of code. Usually around 10k+ lines.
- There is not much guidance for how to implement anything, so you have to
  figure it out yourself. This also gives you opportunities to make bad
  design choices and make your life difficult later down the road.
- Bad design choices will destroy you if you don't fix them early on
- Large-scale synchronization-safe code is very difficult to write properly.

The `p3` handout is probably the best resource you have for getting started on the assignment. There are also some other resources you should consult
to do the project.

- [Switching to User Mode](http://www.jamesmolloy.co.uk/tutorial_html/10.-User%20Mode.html): Good guide about context switching.
- [What I Wish I Knew for `p3`](https://github.com/mikinty/CMU-Notes/blob/master/15-410/p3_wish.pdf): Reflections about `p3` from a former student
- `intel-sys.pdf`: Course staff provides a copy and you can also find it online.
- [OSDev Wiki](https://wiki.osdev.org/Expanded_Main_Page): Wiki where you can find partial implementations of portions of your OS

## Exams

Exams are very difficult in the class.
To quote a friend,

> OS brings out all the mistakes you don't usually make

Although this will sound cliche, OS will bring the worst version of you on
Exam Day. You will have poor time management when you normally don't, you
will miss deadlocks when you've already seen so many during prep, and you'll
get stuck when you thought you'd have a backup just in case you'd get stuck.

However, despite how hard exams are, they can be well-prepared for. There are
lots of materials available for preparation, and even past exams to
reference.

Exams are usually formatted as:

- Testing a **good practice** explained in lecture, such as error checking,
  decision matrices, how to panic, etc. This can also just be a
  **straightforward concept**, like what is 1:1, n:m kernel threading, how
  does transactional memory work, etc.

- **Deadlock question:** You are given some code or a scenario, and you have
  to find deadlock. In general, you should always know the 4 conditions for
  deadlock, and how to resolve them.

- **Synchronization Issue:** Usually asking for a race condition, and a code
  trace that demonstrates the race condition happening. A followup question
  will ask you how to resolve the race.

- **Reading Assembly:** You will be given a snippet of assembly, and you have
  to figure out what it does and maybe figure out any vulnerabilities to it.
  You are also often asked to draw a picture of the VM associated with
  running the assembly. You often don't have to write that much assembly
  code until `p3`, so be ready for one of these questions for the midterm.

- **Writing Tests:** You are asked to write black-box testing code for
  some sort of program or function, such as a mutex. You need to be able to
  come up with all the mistakes a student could possibly make with their
  mutex implementation.

The best prep for exams is to do the practice exams found at the
[410 Exam Archive](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~410/old-exams.html).
I feel like these exams would be more useful if they had solutions,
so if anyone wants to start a solutions archive...

## HW

There are few HWs in the class, and they don't usually count for much.
If anything, they are usually used to just quiz simple lecture concepts,
or give you an exercise in preparation for a format of an exam question.
For example, you might be given a HW about code tracing, which helps
you understand what format the course staff wants you to respond in
to a similar question on the exam.

## How to do well

- As important as it is to complete your assignments on time, code quality
  reigns supreme over almost any time advantage you might get from finishing
  your projects early, but with little quality. This is because the projects
  are often large enough in scale where bad code is almost unfixable at the
  end. Therefore, spend enough time justifying good code choices early on,
  and don't rush to just "get it done."

- There is a large myth surrounding how grading is done in the class.
  Although no one knows for sure, the general consensus is that the biggest
  weights are on `p3` and the exam grades. This is not to say to just throw
  away your grades for the other projects and HWs, but if you get Cs on the
  earlier projects, _it is ok_. You should use these grade penalties as
  opportunities to learn and prepare for `p3` and exams. Therefore, as long
  as you prepare for your exams well and do well on `p3`, you should be able
  to get a good grade. Obviously easier said than done.

- It might feel discouraging to ask questions, since the course staff can
  often give vague responses to your questions. Despite this difficulty, you
  should still try to ask questions where you have them, and if you get a
  response that feels like you asked a bad question, try to modify your
  question so it is better.

- Learn how to use macros to make your code more modular. Anything from
  simple `#define` for constant values to defines that take in arguments and
  can be used to construct functions are all very useful. You can also use
  them to create your `panic` statements and any debugging protocols.

- In your synchronization code, always make sure that they don't violate
  the requirements:

  - Mutual exclusion
  - Progress
  - Bounded Waiting

- Reading the textbook can be surprisingly rewarding. Although you won't
  necessarily get everything you want, you will be given code
  implementations, examples, and more elaboration on concepts.

## Resources

- [410 Course Page](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~410/)
- [410 Exam Archive](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~410/old-exams.html):
  There are exam reflections but no solutions.
- Also see the resources for [`p3`](#p3)
- [Modern Operating Systems](https://amzn.to/3xtLq9C): Tanenbaum is like the god of systems. Although there is no textbook for the course, this book can be helpful to understand certain concepts.
