# 15-455: Undergraduate Complexity Theory

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| HW       | 5          |
| Exams    | 4          |

This class is an introduction to complexity theory, a domain in computer science theory. It is to be taken after 15-251, and focuses on calculating how much of a resource (time, space, etc.) is needed to solve a certain problem. The first half of UCT is a general overview (plus some new material) of material from 251, and the second half of UCT introduces many new complexity classes, and also talks about time as a resource.

## What to expect

- **Homework:** There is a weekly problem set consisting of 4 questions. The problems in UCT are overarchingly the same: present an algorithm/reduction, prove correctness (iff), and prove time and/or space complexity. There's a little bit of turing machine programming during the first few homeworks, but everything else is written (typed). Make sure you're comfortable with LaTeX!
- **Exams:** The exams are 1.5 hours long in class. They are fairly straightforward, with the problems being a little easier than the ones from homework.

## How to do well

- Read the notes!! Like any proof/algorithm class, you really need to know your definitions (I'd say even more for UCT, since there are so many complexity classes with their own definitions)

## What to watch out for

- The exam practice problems are not a great indicator of the exam. Oftentimes they're too hard or too _weird_ (not like most homework problems) to appear in an actual exam. Your best bet for exams is reading the notes and going over the homework problems.
- Professor O'Donnell is really nice, but his office hours can be a little slow and filled with silence.
- The material is fairly boring the first half of the semester, since it's mostly review from 251 (Turing Machines, P, NP). However, after Midterm 1 concepts almost all the content is new, and is significantly more work than the first half of the semester if you've been slacking off.

## Resources