# 16-664: Self Driving Cars: Perception & Control

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| HW       | 3          |
| Project  | 3          |

Self Driving Cars: Perception & Control is a new class introduced to Robotics Department
in Spring 2023. This class combines both the perception and control knowledge in the field of
self driving car and gives students homework and project that solves problems using real work
and simulation data samples. The course is split into two halves: the first half semester
covers perception, and the second half covers control.

# Topics covered

Perception 
- Pose sensors
- Camera & Lidar geometry
- Localization & SLAM
- Machine Learning for Computer Vision

Control
- State space models
- Linear Quadratic Regulators (LQR)
- Vehicle Dynamics
- Model Predictive Controls (MPC)
- Trajectory Optimization

# Class structure

The class only has one lecture per week, and it is 2 hour and 50 minute long, from 4 pm
to 6:50 pm. During the lecture period there will have two intermissions, so it won't be
too exhausting. During the lecture, professors will cover how certain perception/control
techniques were developed and how to deploy them in self driving car scenarios. The
lectures assume students have some prior knowledge in linear algebra, so it is good to
take some linear algebra courses before taking this class. However, you are welcome to
ask questions or concepts that you have not heard of and both perception and control
professors will happily answer you.

# Homework

Homework is due biweekly. The difficulty is not too hard, so you have plenty of time to work
on the assignment. Note that there is only one TA per half of the semester (so one perception
TA and one control TA), you should work on the assignment ahead of time and ask questions
during the limited office hour time. There is one assignment you are allowed to submit up to
48 hours late. Since most materials are related to linear algebra, the assignment will be
submitted using MATLAB grader and you can test your submissions for unlimited number of times
before the due. It's better if you have worked with MATLAB before this class. However, you
can still take it without the prior knowledge as there will be a warmup assignment on MATLAB
before everything.

# Project

The final project is about perceiving other vehicles and controling your own vehicle's movement
in the simulation environment of GTA5 (Wow!). This final project is pretty cool and you are
allowed to use any perception and control technique. The baseline for passing the final
project is fair, and you can explore more techniques after getting a passing score. The final
project is in groups.

# Exams

There are no exams in this class.

# How to do well in this class
- Ask questions about anything during the class time
- Start your homework early
- Ask your classmates or on Piazza since TAs have few office hour slots
- Have fun :)
