# 18-310: Fundamentals of Semiconductor Devices

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| HW       | 3          |
| Exams    | 4          |
| Quizzes  | 3          |
| Labs     | N/A        |

This course is the introductory elective to semiconductors and device physics, 
with an emphasis on the link between basic principles and device design. 
Class content focuses on the underlying physics of semiconductor materials and
the basic devices that rely on their properties, such as diodes and
transistors, which in turn form the building blocks of the digital and analog 
electronics that power our world.

This class begins with the theory behind intrinsic and doped semiconductor 
materials and their properties, before moving on to diodes, transistors, and
other components. Students interested in taking this class should understand
that it focuses primarily on the (applied) physics of semiconductors, and
deep dives into the fundamental principles governing their properties, more
so than circuit analysis or design. On the other hand, it is also not a class
that goes too deep into theoretical physics - topics get tangential to
quantum mechanics, but mostly focus on the practical side of things, as they
pertain to IC design.

As a prerequisite to higher-level courses in device science, this is a 
must-take for students interested in this area. In addition, it makes a great
companion course for hardware or IC design classes, such as 18-320,
as understanding the principles of semiconductors can be helpful to
analyzing and designing circuits.

Lectures can be very dense, and the material is pretty mathematically
rigorous. Attending lectures is highly recommended, as it may be difficult
to make sense of graphs and equations outside of the lecture hall. Speaking
of graphs and equations, there are a _lot_ of them, as well as symbols
and constants. However, assignments are relatively easy, and are mostly
"plug and play" - find the right equation from lecture slides, and plug in
provided values. Exams are likewise.

This course is usually taught by Professor Jimmy Zhu, who has a wealth of
experience in this field and explains concepts in a really intuitive way.

## Topics Covered

- **Intrinsic and Doped Semiconductors**
- **Carrier Diffusion, Recombination, Mobility**
- **PN Junctions and Diodes**
- **BJTs**
- **MOSFETs**

## Lectures

The lectures introduce the concepts that you need to complete your assignments. It will also connect these concepts to practical applications in semiconductor design. You could probably do well in the class without attending lecture and simply referring to the slides, but going to lecture is a great opportunity to ask questions and definitely recommended if you are actually interested in the discipline.

Attending recitation is also recommended if you want to see practice problems worked through or if you want to ask questions.

There will also be a Canvas quiz after each lecture, combining for a small percentage of your grade. You don't actually have to do them during lecture, since they stay open well into the next day. Typically they cover some concept of the lecture

There is a textbook for the class ([available for free here](https://www.chu.berkeley.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/Chenming-Hu_ch1-3.pdf)), but the lectures don't necessarily precisely follow the book. If you want extra reading, you can ask the professor which section to refer to.

## Homeworks

Homework assignments are usually a set of 5-6 problems that use concepts from the previous lecture. Typically solving a homework problem boils down to finding the right equation from the lecture slides or the right diagram to model the problem. Sometimes it can be unclear what equation you should use/what the first step should be from a problem, but the professor is usually helpful on Piazza.

## Exams

There are three midterm exams in this class (no final exam). You are allowed 
a note sheet and you will probably be filling it up with equations and diagrams 
from the lecture slides. If you have a good note sheet, then the exams should be 
rather easy.

## Tips

- Attend lectures. This is one of those classes where attending lectures and 
paying attention is a more effective and time-efficient way to learn the 
material, even for those who are confident of their ability to study it 
themselves
- _Make a good notesheet._ There are lots of equations and symbols, but exam
problems tend to relatively simple, in the sense that they often involve 
just finding the right equations and plugging in values. So the more equations
and graphs you have prepared, the more you'll breeze through exams
- In lectures, focus on getting an intuitive understanding of the concepts
being covered - why electrons and holes behave the way they do, what an
energy band diagram means, etc. Understanding concepts well will make
homework assignments and exam problems much easier
