# 18-341: Logic Design and Verification

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| HW       | 5          |
| Projects | 8          |

This is the seminal class in the hardware systems track in ECE. Most students
take this course shortly after 18-240 and before. This course has **no exams**,
and your grade is solely determined by how well you do on the
projects. The level of difficulty of the projects vary wildly, ranging from
something that can be done in a single evening to something that could take
many, many days.

The homeworks are a lot like the homeworks that were in 18-240. They aren't
super intellectually challenging, but take a fair bit of time to do them
correctly.

It's important to note that lectures aren't mandatory, and much of what you
need to be able to complete the projects are in just a few of the lecture
slides. That being said, Professor Nace put in a lot of time into making the
lectures and they cover a lot of interesting topics. Additionally, the
content from Professor Nace's lecture slides are chalk full of content used
for hardware interviews. Additionally, Professor Nace tries to get a few
guest lecturers to come in towards the end of the semester from some
prominent companies.

While there are not too many resources for the course, Nace has several books
that you can ask about during his OH that you can checkout at the CMU library.
In addition, if you're serious about learning how to use System Verilog
professionally, the textbook is a worthwhile investment.

## Topics Covered

- **System Verilog**
- **Pipelining**
- **FSM+D Design and Implementation**
- **FPGA Synthesis**
- **Signal Tap**
- **Hardware Design**
- **VCS**
- **Industry Verification**

## HW
Similar to the 240 style of homeworks. Can range from short coding
assignments to paper assignments you'll discuss in class. Again, these aren't
super challenging, but they do take a lot of time.

## Labs
Some of these labs are very time intensive. Additionally, for one of the labs
(USB), you will be assigned a random partner from the class. They are mostly
self-paced, so the onus is own yourself to make sure you stay on top of all
the assignments and check-ins.

The router lab can be deceivingly simple, since the basic concepts of a router
(just need to forward data), is easy to grasp, but actually implementing it
can lead to many issues, especially since there are performance requirements
for the lab.

The final lab, where you have to work with the SMP 68K machine is quite time
consuming, and requires a lot of datasheet digging and waveform debugging.
It's a nice comprehensive lab to conclude the course, but expect to spend a
lot of time figuring out not only what is going on in your code, but how the
hardware fundamentally works.

## How to do well

- Start the labs early
- Don't be afraid of the TAs. Nace usually vets them thoroughly
- Not impossible to do well, the grading scheme is quite forgiving
- There are some important 240 concepts you should know before taking this
  class. For example, understanding Mealy and Moore machines, and how to
  construct them to perform tasks that aren't just simple exercises -- in 240
  you might be asked to make a palindrome detector, but in this class you might
  want to make Mealy machines to perform more complicated logic.

  Planning some of your state machines on paper ahead of time can be useful.

## What to watch out for

- Expect to spend a lot of time on this class
- This class is incredibly System Verilog intensive. You will have to know SV language specifics, as well as how to translate complex designs and thoughts into SV.