# 18-370: Computer Systems and the Hardware/Software Interface

| Category | Difficulty |
| HW       | 4          |
| Projects | 3          |
| Final    | TBD        |

This class is a follow up to 18-290, drawing most heavily on the concepts of feedback systems and Fourier transform introduced in the course. There is little by-hand computation in the course, as it is assumed you have a solid foundation from 290.

## HW

There are 10 total homework assignments for the course. They are released on a roughly weekly basis, more than a week before their due date. These homeworks are typically 3-6 problems each of decent size. No one line answers here, but also no extensive proofs. A decent portion of the homework problems are MATLAB problems, with at least 1 per homework after the week 1 review.

## Projects

There are two projects in this class, each lasting about a month. These projects can be completed alone or with a partner, though due to their heavly reliance on MATLAB and Simulink, sharing work can be difficult. 

## Exams

There are no quizzes or midterms in this course. There is a final exam, but at this time the author has not taken it. 


## How to do well

- Read the textbook. The textbooks are available for free on the course website and are great supplimentary material to the lectures.
- Be familiar with MATLAB and Simulink. The course assumes a familiarity with both and does not provide many materials to learn them.
- Use OH to get help on homeworks and to reinforce topics you're struggling with.
- Review Matrix Alegbra, Matrix Inverse and Determinant calculation and Fourier Transforms. If you still have it, your FT table from 290 will be quite handy.
- Be willing to start and stop work on the homework as the course progresses. Despite their early release date, homeworks often cover content from the lecture of the same day it is due.
- Form a study group if you learn well in that setting. The class has no formal recitations.

## Who should take this class

- If you are interested in pursuing a career in motion control, automation, control electronics, robotics, or systems science and engineering
  - This course also fulfills the Controls requirement of the RI's Robotics Minor
- If you enjoyed 290 and want to learn more about the practical applications of the concepts from that course.
