# 18-491: Digital Signal Processing

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| HW       | 5          |
| Exams    | 7          |

This course builds on topics from 18-290 Signals and Systems. 
It is the entry course to higher level courses such as 18-792 and 18-793. 
The first half of the course involves a mathematical based introduction to 1D discrete signals.
The second half of the course are more application based, and builds on the maths from the first half of the course. 
At the end of the course, students should know how to sample discrete signals (e.g. Upsample, Downsample), build filters including adaptive ones. 

## What to expect

- **Lectures:** Lectures are concepts based. They are resonably paced, and the Professor is very open to answering any questions.
- **Recitations:** Recitations are homework based. They give a general approach on how to solve homework problems.
- **HW:** The homeworks are generally long. On average, the homeworks are about 10 pages long, and it is likely you will spend 2x more time as compared to 18-290 Homeworks.
- **Exams:** The exams are challenging, and requires conceptual understanding of the topics. 

## How to do well

- Attend and understand all the lectures. 
- Start HW early. HW are released on Fridays, and I would recommend starting them during the immediate weekend. 
- Attend Recitations and Office Hours (OH).
- Refer to Supplementary materials provided by the professor
- Follow discussions on Piazza

## What to watch out for

- You will have an assignment every week with 5 late days provided.
- Signals are best learned by attending classes in person, since the professor works out the equations on the spot. Watching lecture recordings does not give you the opportunity to clarify doubts on the spot, and in Signals it is very easy to forget about your questions the more you wait. 

## Resources

- [Course Website] (http://course.ece.cmu.edu/~ece491/)