# 18-746/15-746: Storage Systems

| Category | Difficulty |
|:--       | :-:        |
| Quiz     | 5          |
| Projects | 9          |
| Exams    | 7          |

This class is easily one of the must do for systems engineering enthusiasts.
The class covers topics such as SSD and HDD internals, RAID, Filesystem deep dive,
Distributed filesystems , RAID. Being a graduate level course, you will be asked to develop
solutions which meet specified performance parameters while making tradeoffs on your own, with minimal 
support from course staff. this class is offered only in fall.

## Language Used
Although this class lists C++ as a requirement, both the projects can be completed
writing C code. although please be cautioned that you'll also have to work twice
as hard as others, as you will not have access to STL elements like vector, maps, lists
and end up coding these data structures on your own. 
    So a good strategy would be to brush up C++ basics like classes, objects and
most importantly STL data structures (vector, maps and sets suffice).
note: you dont need any advance concepts like smart pointers, rvalue references etc.,
C++03 knowledge should suffice.

## Lectures

The Course staff recommends attending lecture as there is no recommended text for the 
course. Also there are a lot of guest lectures arranged by course instructors toward the end 
of the semester which can be insightful. The lectures before midterm concentrate more on 
internals of HDD, SSD and filesystem deep dive, the lectures after midterm are less dense and
cover mostly distributed filesystems (AFS, NFS), cluster filesystems (GFS). Guest lectures also 
happen during class hours, though the content from these guest lectures is also included on exams,
the weightage is a bit less compared to actual course content. the lecture material is designed to
be less dense in latter part of the semester as CloudFS project can be challenging, time consuming
but full of learnings.

## Quiz
    there is weekly quiz with contents covering that week's class material and also reading 
assignments. the quizzes are not designed to be super hard but include tricky questions which
should not be hard to get if one has understood the core concepts of the topics covered for the
week.

## Projects

Projects are very interesting, thought provoking and to an extent hard but impart tons
of learning in the course of completing them. though in the past there have been other projects like 
designing and writing fsck filesystem consistency checker, the latest version of the course entails 
designing and writing Flash Transation layer(FTL), the emphasis of the project is to impart on 
student the inner working of FTL and also to come up with designs and implementations which deliver 
required SSD performance metrics.
    The second project is CloudFS, a hybrid cloud filesystem which 
offloads files beyond a threshold to the object stores like S3. one will learn every facet of 
filesystem like open, readdidr and other filesystem calls and also learn  concepts about
distributed filesystem, caching, deduplication etc., this is easily the best part of this class and also the hardest project. 	
On a side note One will get to learn how to write a code for a complex project come up with modular coding practices etc.,

## Exams

Exams can be tricky they are not super difficult but if you have not understood 
core concepts which are thought in class they can get difficult. you might 
answer a question in one way thinking that is correct, only to find out that
you only had partial solution or the solution was incorrect. 
    The theme of the exams are that none have direct questions, all are application based
and one can find them to be very tricky. Most times there is more than one acceptable answer to 
these questions and what ends up happening is most students get confused by this ambiguity 
and end up with bad time management. one has to realise that some or most questions can 
be answered for or against, your score only depends on the how compelling your reasoning is,
which shows how well you have absorbed the core concepts of the class.
    For exam preparation please make use of the previous question papers, the more you solve
the better prepared you get.
as such there is one Mid term and one final in the course.


## How to do well

- Pay attention to the lectures, do not miss any of them. 

- read or atleast skim through the assigned reading material for the week, before
the quiz for the week.

- Treat the weekly quiz as a test of sorts. 

- The projects are hard, go to office hours and get help. being a graduate course 
limited help is provided but go anyways. 

- There are more than one solution for the projects and more than one way to code up the 
same solution, as such each TA might give hints based on his/her preference 
be mindful of this fact and make sure you stick to one particular way if you go to multiple office
hours of different TA.

- For Exam preparation make sure to solve enough question papers released by the course staff. Also
do follow course staff recommended way, which is to solve the past question papers without seeing the answers in 
game time conditions (you can also practice untimed), and then look at solution provided to ascertain where
you might be going wrong and correct your understanding.

