
# 18-759 RW Wireless Networks


|  Category  | Difficulty  |
|:---------:|:-----------:|
|HW         |  4          |
|Exams      |  6          |
|Survey     |  6          |
|Quizzes    |  5          |
|Final Project |  6       |

This class is offerred from CMU-Africa as a requirement for the Network Technologies concentration. It focuses on the wireless channel, particularly wireless communication techniques and protocols. The high level topics cover antenna design, satellite communication, mobile cellular planning, signal encoding techniques, spread spectrum, error control, link budget. Newer technologies such as 5G, UAV communications, cognitive radio, and terahertz communications are also reviewed.

## Topics Covered

* Radio  transmission  fundamentals:  Radio  propagation  models, transmissioneffects, fading, noise, Doppler effects,etc.
* Multiuser  communication:  multiuser  techniques,  access  techniques,  interference  and  its mitigation.
* Mobile  cellular: Telephone  systems,  frequency  reuse,  cellular  architecture, cell  planning, handover techniques, cellular capacity,cellular generations,etc.
* Satellite  communications: Geometry,  transmission  and  access  techniques, radio  subsystems, link design, and applications.
* Communication networks:LANs, MANs, WANs, switching techniques, protocols, etc.
* Future  networks:TeraHertz  communications,  5G  networks,  cognitive  radio, IoT, UAV-assisted communication, C-RAN, mmWavecommunications, etc.

## What to expect

* **Homework:** The instructor gives short homeworks related to the topics being tackled. The homeworks are mostly computaton questions related to the topic.
* **Quizzes:** The quizzes are given after most lectures to test understanding of the topic of discussion during the lecture. This is also usually short and can range from computations to theoretical understanding.
* **Labs:** The labs are done in the physical lab spaces. However, during the pandemic, the labs have quickly transitioned into software-based with software such as Radio Mobile, Wireshark, and Mentum. The labs are given every two weeks.
* **Survey:** This is a research and writing assignment where students are given topics on future and emerging wireless technologies. The submissions for the survey are: a presentation and a report.
* **Final Project:** Mostly involves the design of a wireless network with several factors in consideration.
* **Mid-term Exam:** A written exam with a mix of computation questions, explanations, definitions, and design.

## How to do well

* Pay close attention in class for proper understanding. This will help with the quizzes after teh class.
* Utilize the TA office hours as this will help especially with the labs.
* Endeavor to do well in the quizzes and review them after as the understanding of the content is paramount to passing the exam.
* Participate actively in recitation classes as these help greatly with computation questions.
* Do thorough research on the survey topic and ensure you have great content for both presentation and the report.



## What to watch out for
* Familiarizing yourself with the software early on will help when the labs are released.
* There os only one exam, so it is best to prepare well for it.

