# 21-270: Introduction to Mathematical Finance

| Category | Difficulty |
| :------: | :--------: |
|   HW     |     3      |
|  Exams   |     4      |
| Quizzes  |     3      |

Disclaimer: Course taken remotely in Spring 2021. 

Course is a math/science elective possible for ECE majors. This course is an introduction to mathematical finance and an introductory course for the computational finance minor/major. This course is primarily using math to price items such as bonds and options. Heavily abstracted, so don't expect to take this course and immediately be able to model the prices of bonds and options, however it is a good starting off point.

## Homework

Homework is due weekly, and its topics are tested on quizzes the following week. Homework at the beginning of the semester is mainly plug and chug, however the homework shifts towards more proof based questions towards the end of the semester. Some of them may be a bit tricky, so don't be afraid of going to office hours.

## Quizzes

Quizzes are assigned weekly and are restated or a variation on homework questions and topics presented in the previous week. One note sheet allowed for quizzes, otherwise closed book.

## Exam

There is one midterm and one final exam. Both are closed book, but one note sheet is allowed. Exam questions are just variants of the quiz questions, so there won't be shock questions that you've never seen before. Remember to pace yourself.

## Course Structure
15% Homework
40% Quizzes
20% Midterm
25% Final

## Tips to succeed

The quizzes make up a lot of your grade. Don't skip them.
I would suggest having one note sheet that you keep throughout the semester. Add topics onto the note sheet every week for the quizzes, and you will no longer find the need to create a note sheet by the time the midterm and final happens.

