# 24-104: Introduction to Modern Making (Mini)
---
| Category        | Difficulty |
| --------        | ---------- |
| Homeworks       |       2    |
| Final Project   |       3    |

Introduction to Modern Making is a mini course offered by TechSpark. In this class, you learn how to draw a simple CAD and the basics of Arduino. By taking this course, you gain access to the hand tools, laser cutter, and 3D printers in TechSpark. It's a project based course with a light workload and you get to keep everything you make. (Note: This class is basically the first half of 24-101, so if you plan on taking 24-101 don't take this class).

## Classes
The first half of the course is designed to get you safety trained and give you practice using SolidWorks, the laser cutters, and hand tools. The last half of the class is for you to work on your final project. The last day of class is a project expo, where teams present their final project.

## Homework
Homework is assigned weekly and is very easy to complete. Steps on how to do each homework is provided, so all you have to do is follow the instructions and you're done! The first few homeworks can take a while, especially if you have no experience with CAD.

## Final Project
For your final project, you are assigned a random team (3-4 people per team). Your group is expected to come up with a project that uses all the tools you learned how to use (hand tools, laser cutter, and 3D printer), and provide a bill of materials to the professor. Once you get your materials, there's approximately 2 weeks to work on the project. Based on the complexity of your project, you might need to work with your group outside of class to finish.
