# 57-173: Survey of Western Music History

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| Exams    | 1          |
| Homeworks| 1          |

This class provides an extremely broad history of Western Music, stretching from Gregorian chant and earlier to the present day. It is accompanied by listening assignments for each week. 

## Homeworks

There are not traditional homework assignments in this course. Instead, there is a list of terms each week that should be researched and defined, and will be expanded upon and occassionally verbally quizzed in class. They also form the basis for the exams. There are also weekly listening assignments in the companion course, 57-188. On the final, there will be a question asking for the percentage of music listened to. 

## Exams

Exams are straightforward, and typically consist of multiple choice questions followed by an essay on topics discussed in class. The mutliple choice questions are closely related to the definition of terms, while the essay question will require more complex thought and analysis. 

## Lectures

Attendance is randomly taken through Canvas quizzes during most lectures, although questions are not difficult. Lecture may include lecturing on material, group excrercises, and watching and listening to musical performances. Students will also occasionally be asked to define terms. 

## Fulfillments
 
This course counts as PPC general education class for students in CIT, and a cultural analysis class for those in SCS. It is also a required course for an audio engineering minor. 

## Applicability

Course content is not particularly aligned to any technical field, but students with an interest in music history may find it interesting.  

## Prior Experience

No prior musical experience is necessary.

## Resources

- The recommended textbook is _Music: The definitive Visual History_. It may make defining terms slightly easier, but much of the information can be found online. The textbook is also available at local libraries. 