# 82-137 Chinese Calligraphy: Culture and Skills

| Category |Difficulty  |
| :------: | :--------: |
| Weekly Calligraphy Practice | Easy |
| Group Presentation | Easy |
| Midterm Exam | Easy |
| Midterm Project | Easy |
| Final Reflection | Easy |
| Final Project | Easy |
| Prerequisites | None |

This course introduces students of varying backgrounds to the basics of Chinese calligraphy. The core of the class involves learning the fundamental techniques of calligraphy alongside the cultural meaning. Additional cultural topics are also discussed, including Chinese art history in various media (calligraphy, porcelain, bronze). The class encourages learning in a friendly environment and no prior knowledge or cultural background is necessary.

This course is very good for ECE students seeking a low-stakes elective that is engaging. Most work is done in class, so it does not take too much time out of the busy schedule of an ECE student.

## Lectures

During lectures, students are introduced to a new character to practice. The lectures are highly interactive. After watching a demonstration of how the character is written, students are encouraged to practice on their own. Group presentations also happen at lectures.

## Group Presentations

Each group of 3-4 students are tasked with a specific time period to research. The group should then create a presentation that captures a glimpse of what Chinese art looked like in that period, as well as the cultural significance of each of the pieces.

Alongside the presentation, each member of the group is also required to submit a short reflection on the piece they contributed.

## Weekly Calligraphy Practice

Every week, students practice a new character which builds on skills from the previous weeks. At the end of the week, students must submit an image of their best practice to Canvas.

## Midterm Project

At the middle of the semester, each student shall select a character for their project. This character should have cultural or personal significance. In order to demonstrate understanding of various calligraphy styles, this character piece should include 3 different calligraphy styles (regular, running, cursive, clerical, or seal).

## Final Project

The final project is similar to the midterm project in that students will select a piece to work on. This time, students will select a larger piece (a poem or short saying). The piece ideally matches the experience of the student. For example, a native Chinese speaker would be expected to choose a longer poem and a student with no cultural background is allowed to choose a shorter piece with larger characters.

## Midterm Exam

The exam is a short quiz that reviews the topics discussed about the history of Chinese art and the fundamentals of calligraphy.
