# 18-202: Mathematical Foundations of Electrical Engineering

| Category | Difficulty |
| :------: | :--------: |
|   HW     |     4      |
|  Exams   |     5      |
| Quizzes  |     2      |

Required core corequisite for ECE majors. This course is a broad introduction to the branches of mathematics applied
in electrical engineering, including: linear algebra, differential equations, and some complex/vector calculus. While it is
not explicitly a prerequisite, many core ECE courses, especially in the signal processing/circuits paths, will reference 
topics learned in 18-202. 

Due to its breadth, the course moves relatively briskly through topics, relying on students to stay on track through
recitation and assigned readings. Topic lectures are also supplemented by "Idea lectures" which
demonstrate real-world applications of the topics being taught. While these are interesting to listen to,
students shouldn't worry to much about retaining the details as they are rarely included substantially in exam questions.

The course is graded on a bucket system, where out of 1,080 possible total homework points, earning 900 points 
fulfills 100% of the homework bucket. This allows for a generous margin of points to be lost before
students cross any grade thresholds. (For exams, 360 points are available but only 300 maximum are counted towards the
final grade)

The Mathematical Foundations requirement can also be fulfilled by taking 2 of the following instead:
- 21-259: Calculus in Three Dimensions
- 21-241: Matrices and Linear Transformations
- 21-254: Linear Algebra and Vector Calculus for Engineers
- 21-260: Differential Equations

## Prerequisites

In order to take 18-202, students must first take 21-122: Integration and Approximation or have taken AP
Calculus BC before attending Carnegie Mellon. It is also useful to be familiar with some linear algebra
concepts before taking 18-202.

## Homeworks

Homeworks are assigned on a weekly basis, and length can vary. Each homework can include proofs, drill questions, 
or conceptual questions. Students will be expected to use Python or MATLAB to carry out certain linear algebra/matrix operations.
For those unfamiliar with the software, there is a TA-led bootcamp at the start of the semester.
A good way to get a feel for how much work students are expected to show to earn full points is by
working through problems in TA-led recitations. Homeworks can be conceptually difficult or plain
tedious, so getting started early is recommended.

## Quizzes

Quizzes are offered during each lecture and typically ask simple questions relating to the most recent
lecture topics. These are mostly used to make sure you are paying attention in lecture. Some quizzes
offer bonus points for answering miscellaneous questions, though they do not count outside of the quiz
bucket.

## Exams

18-202 has 3 Exams which account for 75% of a student's final grade. Students are allowed to bring
a note sheet (up to 3 by the final exam), but the exam is otherwise closed-book.* Due to the note sheet,
exams are not reliant on rote memorization of topics and methods. Some TAs will emphasize topics or question
forms that may appear on the exams during recitation, which may give you an idea of what to anticipate.
Since exams are cumulative, the faculty-led exam review recitations can also be helpful for 
determining which topics to revisit from past units. Exam questions are structured very similarly to
homework questions, including True/False, conceptual, and drill questions. Make sure you are
familiar with matrix/set characteristics and their definitions. It is possible to lose up to 20 points
in each exam without penalty to your final grade (due to the bucket system), so while exams may
be difficult, you do not need to do exceptionally well to get a high final grade.

* During the 2020/2021 Pandemic, exams were online-proctored, open-book, and untimed.

## How to do well

- For certain foundational topics, attending TA-led Bootcamps can be helpful for as a refresher or 
  introduction for unfamiliar students.
- Make sure to attend recitations as homework problems tend to mirror the questions that the TAs
  lead you through fairly closely. Some TAs will also drop hints/answer questions about homework
  solutions.
- For homeworks, I would recommend using MATLAB over learning Python libraries as MATLAB is built for 
  matrix operations. While the syntax can be difficult to get used to, it's very efficient once you
  understand it.
- Remember that the course grading operates on a bucket system. This typically allows for students
  to make up for lost points fairly easily in future assignments, including exams and quizzes.
- If you choose to use LaTeX for homework assignments, make sure that you are comfortable with
  typing and styling matrices, as doing so can be tedious and time-consuming. 
