# 21-241: Matrix Algebra

| Category | Difficulty |
| :------: | :--------: |
|   HW     |     4      |
|  Exams   |     7      |

Linear algebra is one of the most important fields of math used in ECE and CS,
from applications in differential equations, machine learning and even algorithms,
having a solid linear algebra background goes a long way. Arguably, it is the most
important math to know for most students.

## Homeworks

HW assignments are mostly textbook problems, so they are pretty straightforward.
They are a mix of very easy calculation-based problems to more involved proofs.

## Exams

While HWs are pretty straightforward, exams can be quite challenging because they often
have difficult proofs on them. If you can't manage to do a proof, your best bet is to
check over your work for the rest of the exam.
Time pressure is standard, so you don't have to rush too much on finishing exams.

## Resources

Linear algebra is a widely-taught course, which means you'll find tons of resources online.

- [Introduction to Linear Algebra](https://amzn.to/3xCjP6v): People rave about this textbook, although I think it's just a very comprehensive and hands-on approach to linear algebra. Definitely appropriate as a first course, and they use this book at MIT.
- [Linear Algebra Done Right](https://amzn.to/3y16aqJ): A more mathy take on linear algebra, but well-written. Better for the more seasoned mathematician. If this is your second time talking Linear Algebra, I would recommend this book, of ir you are planning to do higher levels maths later in college.
- [Crash Course in Linear Algebra](http://athena.nitc.ac.in/~kmurali/Courses/MFCS15/Fakonas.pdf)