# 21-254: Linear Algebra and Vector Calculus for Engineers

| Category | Difficulty |
| :------: | :--------: |
|   HW     |     4      |
|  Exams   |     4      |

Linear Algebra and Vector Calculus for Engineers is a fast-moving class that covers a broad range of topics. It essentially packs the content of two courses into a single semester: the first half is linear algebra, such as computing matrices and eigenvalues (which is also a topic covered in [18202](math_science_reqs/18202.md)), then vector calculus (which is similar to the second half of [21259](math_science_reqs/21259.md)). Due to its breadth, it does cover material at much less depth, which you may or may not prefer. The course definitely seems to be oriented more for engineering, skipping over proofs and justifications and focusing more on calculations and using Matlab. 

## Topics Covered

- **Vector and matrix operations**
- **Determinants**
- **Linear systems**
- **Matrix eigenvalue problems**
- **Vector differential calculus including gradient, divergence, curl**
- **Vector integral calculus including line, surface, and value integral theorems**

## Prerequisites
21-122: Integration and Approximation

Although the course assumes no Matlab knowledge, it is useful to know basic Matlab syntax (ie. creating matrices). This is because Matlab is only covered in recitations and not lectures, yet it appears almost in every homework.

## Homeworks

Homeworks are assigned on a weekly basis, and length can vary. Homeworks include drill questions to solidify understanding of content learned in class, as well as applications of equations, algorithms, and properties learnt in class in more abstract problems. Students will be expected to use Python or MATLAB to carry out certain linear algebra/matrix operations.

## Exams

21-254 midterms are generally in the same range of difficulty as homework problems and the problems mimic homework questions, but within a 50 minute time limit (though it is also shorter in length than the homeworks). It is important to understand how to solve the homework problems, so that you are familiar enough to solve problems under time constraints.

## How to do well

- Make sure to attend recitations as homework problems tend to mirror the questions that the TAs lead you through fairly closely. Some TAs will also drop hints/answer questions about homework solutions.
