# 21-260: Differential Equations

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| HW       | 4          |
| Exams    | 5          |
| Quizzes  | 4          |

Differential Equations can be used to satisfy one of the two math and science requirements for ECE majors.  It is applicable to many fields of ECE such as Signals and Systems and Analog Circuits.

This class can be approximately split into 5 sections. The first covers the basics of DEQs and First-Order DEQs, including solving separable/linear DEQs, drawing direction fields, and problems modeled by First-Order DEQs.  The second focuses on Higher-Order (mostly Second-Order) DEQs, and one of the heavily studied topic associated with this will be mass-spring systems.  The class then transitions into Laplace transforms, which transforms equations between s and t domains.  The fourth section is mainly about Systems of DEQs, which covers not only solving them, but also drawing and analyzing phase portraits.  Lastly, the class finishes with Partial DEQs, including topics such as Fourier Series and the Wave Equation.

## Homeworks

The homeworks in this class can be split into 2 main parts: written homeworks and WebWork.  They are both handed out on a weekly basis.  WebWorks are online and autograded with approximately 10 attempts per problem.  They are mostly good tools for you to practice the concepts learned in lecture through short, straightforward problems. On the other hand, written homeworks are still relatively straightforward, but are longer and meant to help you obtain a deeper understanding of the material.

## Exams

Exams are also similar to the problems you have done in class.  There are generally no proofs, but there are cases where you might need to draw graphs on the exam, which could be a bit time-consuming.  You are allowed one note sheet.  Since there are only so many types of problems and formulas in this class, it could be beneficial to write down some sample problems. 

## Quizzes
There are 4 quizzes throughout the semester.  Quizzes are 30 minutes long and held during recitation.  They are a shortened version of the exam and test you on topics covered 3-4 weeks prior to the exam.  You are also allowed one note sheet.

## How to Do Well
- Go to lecture as much as possible.  Problems on homeworks, exams, and quizzes are mostly slight variations of what was covered in lecture.  Notes taken during lecture could be very helpful when doing homework problems or when writing note sheets for exams.
- Make sure you are familiar with the formulas before the exam.  While you do get one note sheet, it is still important to have some intuition when solving the problems to make sure you don't take too much time.

