# 36-219: Probability Theory and Random Processes

| Category | Difficulty |
| :------: | :--------: |
|    HW    |     3      |
|  Exams   |     2      |

This course is an introductory probability course specifically designed for ECE students, and it fulfills ECE majors' probability requirement. 

This course is very new, as it was first offered in Spring 2020 as a revision of an earlier course, 36-217.

## What to expect

- **HW:** Homework assignments are offered almost every week. The difficulty and time taken tends to vary, with later homework assignments being harder and longer than earlier homework assignments. 
- **Exams:** There are two exams and a final. All are closed note. Each exam has conceptual, short answer-questions and then applications problems, which are either pure equations or longer word problems. These problems are highly similar to quiz and homework problems, so reviewing the quiz and homework solutions is the most helpful way of preparing for the exam. 

## How to do well

- The most helpful way of preparing for the exams is to review the quiz and homework solutions.
- When needed, review the detailed lecture notes provided. Please be aware that they are sometimes mis-aligned with the lecture material taught in class, e.g. cover in greater detail some topics that you do not need to know for the course.
- Review calculus, as the later section of the course involves some reasonably involved calculus on homework assignments.

## What to watch out for

- There are quizzes at the start of each class. These usually cover the material covered the previous lecture, but sometimes they are on earlier material or represent a review of concepts you should already know, e.g. calculus. Because of the large number of quizzes, each individual quiz does not represent a large proportion of your final grade. Nevertheless, attend as many lectures as possible, and try to review the previous lecture's material beforehand.
- Homework assignments often have misleading wording. Make sure to ask on Piazza or go to office hours to clarify questions you do not understand.
- Students are not automatically enrolled in Piazza, but the course does have a Piazza. Please make sure you're enrolled, and pay attention to the questions and answers offered there. Oftentimes other people have the same questions as you do. 