# 36-225: Introduction to Probability Theory

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| HW       | 3          |
| Exams    | 4          |

This is one option to fulfill the probability requirement for ECE students. This class is much easier and preferable to the other option 36-219. The class is only offered in the Fall so plan accordingly.

## What to expect

- **HW:** Homeworks are not that difficult. All homework problems come from the textbook, which also does a good job of explaining the topics needed to understand the material
- **Exams:** Midterms are not that bad. You are given a reference sheet with all the necessary equations you need, so little memorization is required to do well. Just know when and how to use each equation. Ample time is given to complete the necessary problems

## How to do well

- Form a group to help each other out with concepts on the homework. Some things can be a little tricky at first
- Brush up on your calculus, integration and taylor series may come up a few times
- Professor gives out note sheets with blanks that he fills out during lecture. It can help you a lot to print these out ahead of time and fill them out along with the professor during lecture. The note sheets also include example problem solutions which are great. These completed note sheets are usually all you need to do well on quizzes and exams. Homeworks sometimes have some more difficult problems.

## What to watch out for

- There are weekly quizzes which are probably the hardest part of the course. Make sure to review the previous homework concepts and notes from the previous week to do well on the quiz
- Many students show up to the first exam unprepared and end up not doing that well. Make sure to do the practice problems and go over all previous homeworks. You should be confident using all equations on the reference sheet before the exam