# 18-290: Signals and Systems

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| HW       | 5          |
| Exams    | 5          |

Probably the most theoretical class in the ECE core, 18-290 introduces the math
foundations for working with signals. This class is a very standard math-style
class, where you learn definitions in class, practice them on homework problems,
and are tested with similarly-difficult problems on exams. It's very straightforward,
and as long as you can keep up with the class pace, you should be okay. There are no
labs in this class, so this class is often taken with a core class with lab, such as
220 or 240.

## Lectures and Recitation

Lectures are very straightforward in this class, and are almost taught as a continuous
one big lecture, meaning content you learn from the class before bleeds right into the
next class segment. If you miss a class, this can hurt, but if you keep up, it's nice
to be able to follow along the smooth curriculum. There is a textbook for this class,
but you probably won't need it unless you find the lectures hard to follow.

Recitations are used to review lecture material, but if you feel that you have the lecture
material understood well, then you can probably skip recitation. It's still good to use for
practice if you want it, e.g. before exams, and can be good to ask questions about HW if you
don't feel like going to OH.

## Homeworks

Homework problems in this class are usually straight from the textbook or problems that
are very similar to ones you've done in class. You can always go to OH to ask about how
to do questions. Having a study group to check answers can also be helpful.

Sometimes the calculations in these problems can take a bit of space to simplify,
so imo it's not really worth it to LaTeX HWs in this class as it is in [concepts](../math_science_reqs/21127.md),
but as always it's up to your personal preference.

## Exams

Exams are usually not much harder than HW problems. However, it can be the case that an exam
feels difficult, but it's not because there is content you haven't, it's usually due to problems
that are long or have ugly calculations. Also, it could be because you don't know what method to use
in order to solve the problem. Therefore, it is important to focus on speed while doing the exams,
some skills you should focus on are:

- Identifying what type of method the question is asking for
- Recognizing well-known forms so you can simplify them quickly
- Knowing your integral math very fluently
- Doing algebra/calculations fast

## How to do well

- Just go to class. The material may be learnable on your own, but going
  to class will be the most efficient way to learn. There are also quizzes
  in class sometimes that can boost your grade, so you might as well go.

- Categorize the types of problems you see on the homework. There are only
  so many types of problems that are tested in the class, so if you have them
  organized well, you can identify them quickly and solve them on exams and homeworks.

- The course staff usually provides supplemental material about topics in the class.
  You should look towards those for reference if you feel like you're falling behind,
  or if you want to read ahead of course schedule.
