# 18-500: ECE Design Experience

| Category            | Difficulty             |
|:-:                  | :-:                    |
| Reading Assignments | 4                      |
| Ethics Assignments  | 2                      |
| Discussions         | 1                      |
| Capstone Project    | As hard as you want    |

This course allows your team to design and implement a project that will be the 
culmination of your time in the ECE program. This course requires a team 
to choose a project that is within scope of a semester, prepare design 
documents and presentations, organize a schedule when you plan to achieve
project milestones, and also discuss ethical dilemmas in the technical industry.

This course requires groups of 2-3 members per team.

It's important to know that it is not the job of the course staff to help with
debugging projects. The staff does it's best to pair your group with an adviser 
and a TA that best help you answer "possibility" questions. They're there to 
help you stay on your schedule, answer questions whether a certain approach
is possible (i.e. a "possibility" question), and to keep up to date on your 
teams progress.

The course director is Professor Bill Nace. As the course director, he mostly 
oversees course logisitical issues. There are also 3-4 other professors on the 
18-500 course staff. These professor are typically chosen to cover the different 
concentraion areas (Device Sciences and Nanofabrication, Signals and Systems,
Circuits, Hardware Systems, and Software Systems).

## Topic Covered
- **Practical Engineering Design**
- **Teamwork**
- **Design Document Preparation**
- **Design Presentations**
- **Resource Management**
- **Deadline Planning**
- **Ethics of Technology**
- **Budgeting**

## What to expect

- **Reading Assignments:** In general, the reading of the textbook is not challenging. The
textbook is oriented arounf the design of one of Intel's chips, however it does well to 
not get bogged down in the digital implementation details. The book is used to help students 
recognize the various phase in project development, and to expose some of the design process
the team at Intel went through in creating the chip. The chapters are quite lengthy to read,
but they are pretty entertaining. All in all, these assignments aren't meant to take a lot 
time to do. The goal is to get you to learn about how a design process applies in industry,
and allow you to, hopefully, apply some of those practices to your own project.

- **Ethics Assignments:** The course requires you to read some ethical case studies and 
discuss the challenges faced in these studies. Again, these aren't meant to take a lot of time 
away from your project, but teach students that when decisions made in industry have large 
impacts. It's important for people in industry to try to anticipate how their creations will 
affect the people that use them.

- **Discussions:** After an ethics reading assignment is due (roughly 2 per semester) you will 
be required to participate in a discussion on what you read in a following lecture. These aren't 
supposed to be difficult, but intended to start a conversation. You will then be required to
write a reflection based on the discussion. 

- **Capstone Project:** This is the crux of the class. It's important that you give a lot of time to 
work on your project. A team that meets all their deliverables and milestones won't necessarily 
get a high grade, if they chose an easy project. The staff is there in the beginning to help you 
choose a project that is doable within a semester, but not too easy. They want you to anticipate 
future unknowns, and guess how long it will take you to solve them on your own. 

## How to do well

- Attending in class is mandatory. These are easy points, just attend lecture and work on your project
- Ask your TA and adviser questions, their opinion is critical when deciding grades at the 
end of the semester
- Include many details in your status reports, this is an easy way to let your TA know how your 
project is coming along
- Pick team members that have the same goals and work ethics as you. If you're just trying to get 
a passing to graduate, trying to work with people who have the same goals. 
- The course staff recommends picking partners that cover different areas, but this isn't really 
that helpful if you choose a project that primarily focuses on only one of the concentrations
- An important to know about the awards at the end of the semester is that well polished projects
are typically more well received. The awards are given based on how well you can demo your project 
on demo day. 
- Make sure your presentation slides are done well. Professor Nace and the advisers take these 
presentations very seriously and expect a high degree of professionalism. Also, while they don't 
require you to dress up for your presentations, typically the students that do receive graded 
more favorably.

## What to watch out for

- This isn't a research project. Choose something that you can complete. While it might be tempting
to take this as an opportunity to explore an active research area, it will be difficult 
- While it's tempting to work with your friends, that alone is not a good enough reason to work with
them. Make sure you choose people you know you can work well with.

## Resources

- You get $600 to spend on whatever you want for this project. Additionally, you're allowed to 
borrow more expenisve equipment (LIDARs, FPGAs, Routers, etc.) from professors with their permission.
- Quinn, the parts manager, is your friend. If you need something, he will do his hardest to get you
the part you need.