# 18-847: Special Topics in Computer Systems: Data Center Computing

| Category            | Difficulty             |
|:-:                  | :-:                    |
| Reading Assignments | 4                      |
| Discussions         | 1                      |
| Semester Project    | As hard as you want    |

This course allows you to get a holistic understanding of how the current hyper-scaled
datacenter works in the industry across the technical stacks from hardware to software.
It gives students an opportunity to glance into the challenges at the modern computing
systems, and solutions that are deployed in the real-world systems. This course requires
students to read one research paper before every class and conduct discussions during 
the class. The course also has a semester project where student can form team of 2-3.

The semester project will focus on one of the topics covered in the class. The course
provides some project ideas and students are also free to proposed projects that align
with the course material.

The structure of the class is as following: In general, each class will surround one
paper to study. Three students will present to respectively give: summary, advocate,
critics of the papers. Then the class will perform activities and discussion based on
the paper. Guest speakers, usually one of the author or expert in related filed, from
both the industry and academia will join at end of the class to answer questions students
may have.

It is a very fun course if you like small class structure with discussions based lecture
where you can get very in-depth insights.

If you are interseted in research, this would be a great course to get a sense of how
paper reading is like and read a lot of great paper from both academia and the industry.
If you are interested in the industrial, this is a great course to understand what are
the real-world problem being tackled by all these big companies in their infra/system,
eg: Google, Microsoft, Facebook, etc...

The course is taught by Professor Akshitha Sriraman. Here is the course website that can
give an overview of the structure: https://github.com/STAR-Research/18-847B-F23/blob/main/README.md

## What to expect

- **Paper Reading:** In general, the reading of paper not challenging once you get used to it. The
expected time spent is ~3hr / paper. Student is required to read the paper and submit the summaries
of the paper prior to class. This is also where a major portion of the grade come from. Each student
has 3 papers to skip throughout the semester.

- **Paper Presentation:** Student will get assigned to present a set of papers where you could be
either be summary, avocate or critics of the paper.

- **Class discussions:** Activities related to the paper will be conducted after the presentation.
Some examples are: if you where to solve this problem at company X, what are the possible solution
you'd design? Guest speakers are scheduled to join at the end of some classes to answer students'
questions.

- **Course Project:** A semester long project with three milestones. You will walk through the plan
with the professor to ensure the direction and viability. Students are expected to complete items
being listed in the milstone that YOU proposed. But if it doesn't happen, it is also ok to talk about
what you have tried and why it doesn't work out. Student will have meetings with the professor during
the semester, and plans can be adjusted based on how the project evolve. The studnt will write milestone
reports and final report about the project.

## How to do well

- Attending in class is highly recommended. As participation and engagement does count towards your grade.
- Have a clear and viable plan for the semester project when creating the milestone plan.
- The course material covers many topics, don't be shy when you need to discuss material that you may not
be familiar with. Creativity is highly encouraged during discussion. The point was not to design a perfect
system in 15min, but rather demonstrate thought process. 
- The course staff recommends picking a topics that you are excited about.

## What to watch out for

- Don't spend 10hours to read the paper and try to understand every details. The point was not to test
you on how well you understand the details in the paper, but to understand the ideology and the approach
researcher are taking towards the challenge.

## Resources

- Professor Akshitha Sriraman collects in-semester feedback during the course two times. It is a great
way to raise any concern you may have with the course or propose ideas. Note: make sure you fill out
the form because extensions are granted after you fill it out :) 
